# Setting Up Hardware

This chapter is a tough one, and mainly based on our own experiences
and from comment we got from users who emailed us. Getting the correct
hardware for you project is an important task. Do you want to use multiple
screens, do you need a lot of hardware, what cpu, etc. This chapter is 
divided into specific parts that we find are important to look at when 
buying a PC. 

## Mother Board

## Graphics Card

## Harddisk (SSD, HDD)

## Memory


## Audio

Most audio is handled by [ALSA](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Advanced_Linux_Sound_Architecture)
and you use `alsamixer` to control the different volume levels. To be able to control
the audio we need to install the necessary package(s).

_Install audio utils_
````sh
# pacman -S alsa-utils
````

Next you might need to reboot, which I had to do in some situations. If
the following test does not work, try to reboot and test it again.

_Test audio_
````sh
# speaker-test -c 2
````

When you're logged in with a SSH connection you're not allowed to use audio cards
by default. If you want to login and test the audio you need to be added to the 
group `audio`.  

_Adding roxlu to the group audio_
````sh
gpasswd -a roxlu audio
````

## Kinect

To use the Kinect we need to create a `udev` rules file which sets the
corect permissions for the kinect device when you connect it to the 
PC. The reason for this, is that you need to run your application as root
to access it. Using an udev rule we can fix this. Udev is a system on Linux
which can manage devices. 

We might write a more in depth chapter on how to use udev, but for now
we'll give you the instructions to enable a Kinect. 

 - [@todo write udev article]
 - [@todo write specs for tested kinect]

_Create the udev rules file: /etc/udev/rules.d/001-kinect.rules_
````sh
# cd /etc/udev/rules.d/
# emacs -nw 001-kinect.rules
````

_Paste the following contents into /etc/udev/rules.d/001-kinect.rules_
````sh
# Camera
SUBSYSTEM=="usb",ATTR{idVendor}=="045e",ATTR{idProduct}=="02ae",MODE="0666",GROUP="users",SYMLINK+="/dev/kinect_camera"

# Motor
SUBSYSTEM=="usb",ATTR{idVendor}=="045e",ATTR{idProduct}=="02b0",MODE="0666",GROUP="users",SYMLINK+="/dev/kinect_motor"

# Audio
SUBSYSTEM=="usb",ATTR{idVendor}=="045e",ATTR{idProduct}=="02ad",MODE="0666",GROUP="users",SYMLINK+="/dev/kinect_audio"
````

Once you created this file, easiest thing to test it, is to reboot. 
After rebooting you can check if there are files named `/dev/kinect_*`.

Recently the Linux added support to use a kinect as webcam.
When you use libfreenect you might need to disable the modules 
which allow you to do this. 

_Create a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf file_
````sh
# cd /etc/modprobe.d
# emacs -nw blacklist.conf
````

_Paste the following contents to disable the modules_
````sh
install gspca_kinect /bin/false
install gspca_main /bin/false
````

If, after rebooting you can still not access the kinect you can use the 
following step to get some more information about a possible problem.

First you can use the util `lsusb` which shows you what usb devices are 
connected. Execute the following to check if the kinect is found and if
the product and vendor ids that we use (See the rules script above) are correct.
You should see something like:

_Find the Kinect USB devices_
````sh
# lsusb | grep -i "Xbox"
  Bus 001 Device 005: ID 045e:02ae Microsoft Corp. Xbox NUI Camera
  Bus 001 Device 003: ID 045e:02b0 Microsoft Corp. Xbox NUI Motor
  Bus 001 Device 004: ID 045e:02ad Microsoft Corp. Xbox NUI Audio
````

The ID values is formatted like "idVendor:idProduct". The values you 
see should match the values in the rules file. If you don't get 
any information the device is not recognized somehow. 

**Kinect And Boot Loader Issues**

We've had issues with the GRUB boot loader when trying to reboot while 
the Kinect was stilll plugged in. Somehow it seems that GRUB thinks the 
Kinect is a bootable device or the keyboard.  We solved this by disabling 
support for booting from Legacy Devices in the Bios.  We had a 
`GIGABYTE - UEFI DualBios` and the `Gigabyte GA-Z77-D3H` motherboard.