# Setting Up User Accounts And Groups

## Create a user account

Create an initial user account that you'll use to login 
and work on your PC. Follow these commands to create a user named `roxlu`.

````sh
# useradd -m -g users -s /bin/bash roxlu
````

you can set the password of a user like this:

Next we want to add the user to the `wheel` group so it can use
`sudo` (see below).

## Add user to a group

You can add a user to a specific group by using `gpasswd`. The command
below will add the user `roxlu` to the group `wheel`.

````sh
gpasswd -a roxlu wheel
````

## Setup sudo

The world of Linux is all around security. Therefore you're not advised to execute 
commands that often as the root user, which is basically the boss of your PC. Certain
operations can only be done as root and therefore you'll need to login as root at some
point. Sudo is a little application which will allow a normal to change into root.

_Install sudo_
````sh
# pacman -S sudo
````

Once sudo has been installed you need to configure which users are allowed 
to change into root. Here we will make sure that all users of the group
wheel will be able to use sudo. See below for the step you'll need to take.
You need to make sure that the EDITOR environment variable is set and you'll
use `visudo` to make changes to this file. I'm using emacs here.

_Configure sudo_
````sh
# export EDITOR=emacs
# visudo
````

Then when your `/etc/sudoers` file has been opened, search for a line with 
`%wheel ALL=(ALL) ALL` and uncomment that:

_Make sure you'll have_
````sh
%wheel ALL=(ALL) ALL
````

