# Setting Up a Window Manager

A window manager controls the placement and appearance of windows 
using a windowing system in a graphical interface (wikipedia). Basically this
is what will give you windows. Think about things like Chrome, Opera, iTunes
which all run inside a Window. 

For our PC we will be using a very minimal window manager called [xmonad](http://xmonad.org/).
xmonad is a dynamically tiling X11 window manager that is written and configured 
in Haskell. In a normal WM, you spend half your time aligning and searching 
for windows. xmonad makes work easier, by automating this. (from their website).
We will also install [xmobar](http://projects.haskell.org/xmobar/) which is a tiny text based application selector, similar
the Sportlight on Mac. 

To install xmonad and xmobar we need to install a couple of other packages 
as well.  Lets start with that now and later create a minimal configuration.

_Make sure your package list is up-to-date_
````sh
# pacman -Sy
````

_Install the packages we need for xmonad and xmobar_
````sh
# pacman -S xorg-server xorg-xinit xorg-server-utils
# pacman -S xorg-twm xorg-xclock xterm
# pacman -S haskell-haskeline
# pacman -S xmonad
# pacman -S xmonad-contrib
# pacman -S xmobar
# pacman -S rxvt-unicode
# pacman -S git
# pacman -S chromium # choose 1)ttf-bitstream-vera
# pacman -S freeglut
````

Before we continue we assume that you have an nvidia card. We have tested the 
steps described in this guide using different PC setups which were all using
a nvidia GPU. So before continuing, install the nvidia drivers. Here we assume
you have a new nvidia card to. See the [nvidia](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/NVIDIA)
page on the Arch Linux wiki if you're not sure what kind of card you have. 

[@todo list tested cards] 

_Install the nvidia driver_
````sh
# pacman -S nvidia
````
We are going to use the `roxlu` account on the PC as the main user account. 
Therefore we will setup xmonad for this user. If you want to setup xmonad for 
another user just follow these instructions. 





