# Remote Management

One of the great thinks about using Linux is that it has great 
support for remote management. When you need to access a PC remotely
that is running in a museum there will be a point where you need to update
some files, or recompile the project. Linux is just great for these kinds
of tasks. It does mean that you need to be a little familiar with common 
tasks like how to copy a file from one computer to the other one using a
terminal (there are visual solutions too, no worries). 

## Install The SSH Server

The easiest solution to work remotely is through SSH. If you're not familiar
with it, you'll need to give it some time to get used to it. But once you know
how to use it, it's great and a gives you a quick way to access other PCs. 

To use SSH you need to make sure that the SSH server is installed on the 
remote PC. To install the SSH server on the PC you install openssh using 
pacman and then configure it with the  `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` file.

_Install openssh_

````sh
# pacman -S openssh
````

Next we need to add the users which are allowed to login using ssh. This
is a list, separated by space with the names of the users. 

_Allow users to access the server with ssh_

````sh
# emacs -nw /etc/ssh/sshd_config
+ AllowUsers roxlu james joel
````

If you want to use SSH to remotely login into your PC, you'll need to
make sure that the client where you'll PC will be installed opens the
correct ports and does the necessary port forwarding to allow you to 
connect to the PC. At some point you'll be faced with the situation that
the client is not able to open these ports for you. For those situations
you can use `Reverse SSH`.

## Reverse SSH

Reverse SSH is a solution that can be used to login into your PC when 
it's behind a firewall and the client is unable to setup the necessary 
port forwarding. With Reverse SSH the PC will make a connection to lets
say your Mac form where you want to access the PC. Then, you connect 
to your own Mac through on a localhost connection and all command will
be forwarded to the remote PC. The only situation when this won't work,
is when the client has also disabled outgoing connections, which is rarely
the case. 

To explain this, we follow the convention that we use throughout this 
complete guide. With PC we mean the computer you will build using this
guide. Client is the one for whom you're building it and where the PC
will be installed. We often use "Mac' to indicate your computer that you 
use on daily basis in your office, home, etc.. 

We need to collect some data before we can continue explaining how to
setup reverse SSH. We assume you're using a Mac as it has a build in
SSHD server. [@todo update for windows users]. On your Mac, open the 
`System Preferences` then open the `Sharing` tab and make sure that 
`[X] Remote Login` is checked.  This will enable your local SSH server
so that the PC can actually login into it. This is necessary for the 
reverse SSH. Also make sure that you've forwarded port `22` to the
IP of your Mac. Next, it's a good practice to create an account for 
the PC that we will use to login into your Mac. Lets call this account 
on your Mac "joel".  On Mac you can easily add this user through `System
Preferences > Users`. Create a new standard account. This user will not 
be able to access any files on your system which are owned by your account. 

**Recap**

 - PC: the remote computer that starts the reverse SSH session
 - Mac: the computer you use to do remote management
 - joel: the user you created on your Mac
 - 84.124.32.100: this is the public IP of your Mac, the PC will connect to it

Now that we have made sure that all things are in place we can start
the reverse SSH session. Ask someone else or enter the commands below yourself
if possible on the PC:

_Execute this command on the remote PC_

````sh
ssh -4 -R 5900:localhost:22 joel@84.124.32.100
````

The above command can be read like "Let SSH connect to your mac with 
ip address 84.124.32.100  with the user 'joel' and ask the SSH server
on the Mac to start listening for a new connection on port 5900. When
we receive a connection on the Mac sent it, base on port 22".

After executing the above command on the PC, you'll be asked to enter
a password for "joel". There are ways to login securely without the need
of a passord but we will discuss that somewhere else.  After entering the
password, the user joel will be logged in and you will be able to connect
through this new connection to the remote PC.

Now, to connect to the remote PC you need to connect to `localhost` on 
port `5900`. When I saw this command for the first time it was totally confusing
... connecting to localhost to login onto the remote PC (?!). What you're actually
doing, is that you connect to the SSH server on your Mac on a port that 
was created by the above command and then everything that you type will 
be sent through this local connection to the remote PC. 

We assume you have an account on the remote PC called `roxlu`.  On your
Mac open a terminal and type the following command.

_Connect to the remote PC using the user roxlu_

````sh
$ ssh -p 5900 roxlu@localhost
````

You'll be asked to enter a password (if you didn't setup public keys). Enter
the password of the account you have on the PC. After entering the password
you'll be logged in onto the remote PC withouth the need of port forwarding or
changing any firewall.

Of course it's not a sufficient solution if someone at the client needs
to enter a command everytime you want to login onto the PC. There is a 
solution which will automatically create the remote connection to your
Mac so that you'll never have to ask someone. This will make the perfect
remote management setup. See the next chapter.

## AutoSSH For Automatically Creating Reverse SSH Connections

AutoSSH is an application that will make sure that a SSH connection 
stays open. If the connection closes it will automatically start the 
connection again.  You can make sure that the connection will be started
after boot using `systemd`.

_Install AutoSSH_

````sh
# pacman -S autossh
````

To test if autossh works correctly after installing you can use the following
command to let it create a connection to your Mac. 

````sh
$ autossh -M 20000 -4 -R 5910:localhost:22 joel@84.124.32.100
````

The -M option is the port to which autossh will connect to check if 
the connection is still alive. Now on your Mac try to connect to the remote by using:

````sh
$ ssh -p 5910 roxlu@localhost
````

It that works you can continue else you maybe made a mistake and need to 
go back to the information above. Next step we need to do is to create a 
couple of configurations that will be read when you PC starts, so that it 
will create a reverse SSH connection after reboot. We will describe a solution
which creates the reverse connection a couple of minutes after everything 
has been started up to allow your network card to be initialized through 
DHCP.

We use the systemd feature of Arch Linux to manage "services" and create 
startup scripts. Login onto the PC as root and create the following files.
The command that will be executed is added to the `ExecStart` entry in 
the code below. In this example the PC will start a connection to `joel@84.124.32.100`
which will be the public IP of your Mac from which you'll be doing the 
remote management. If possible it's smart to use a DNS entry for this so 
that you can easily change it when necessary. We will create a SSH connection 
on port `5910` and we use the account `joel` wich must exist on your Mac. Also
make sure that you've setup key based SSH authentication. See [@todo link to 
setup SSH-keys] for more information on how to setup SSH keys.


_Create the /etc/systemd/system/autossh.service file_
````sh
# cd /etc/systemd/sytem
# emacs -nw autossh.service
````

_Add the following contents to the /etc/systemd/system/autossh.service file:_
````sh
[Unit]
Description=AutoSSH Service for Remoteing
After=network.target
 
[Service]
Type=simple
ExecStart=/usr/bin/autossh -M 25910 -q -N -o "ServerAliveInterval 60" -o "ServerAliveCountMax 3" joel@84.124.32.100 -R 5910:localhost:22
 
[Install]
WantedBy=default.target
````

Next we create another script that is used to delay the execution of the 
above service. In some situations you need to execute the command with a 
delay to make sure that your PC has a working internet connections. We create 
another file called `autossh.timer` in the same directory with the following
contents. In this example we wait 2 minutes before autossh initializes

_Create the /etc/systemd/system/autossh.timer file_
````sh
# cd /etc/systemd/system
# emacs -nw autossh.timer
````

_Add the following contents to the /etc/systemd/system/autossh.timer file_
````sh
[Unit]
Description=Delaying autossh on boot
 
[Timer]
OnBootSec=2m
Unit=autossh.service
 
[Install]
WantedBy=default.target
````

After creating these files we're ready to enable them as service
so that they will be executed when the PC boots. Enter the following 
commands. 

````sh
# systemctl daemon-reload
# systemctl enable autossh.timer
# systemctl enable autossh.service
# systemctl start autossh.service

# systemctl status autossh.service
````

The `systemctl daemon-reload` command will reload the files we just
added to the `/etc/systemd/system/` directory. `systemctl enable ...` will
add the service to the startup so that they will be executed when your 
PC starts.  With `systemctl start ....` you can start a service directly.

Now reboot your PC and check if you can login with your Mac. If not, login 
onto the PC and enter the following command to inspect any errors. 

````sh
# journalctl -u autossh
````

## Install X2GO for Remote Desktop Sharing

We will use X2GO to login onto the remote desktop of the PC. X2GO uses the
NX standard to remotely control a X11 server. Because it works at a higher
level it's faster then VNC and can result in near "same-machine" experience.

_Update the package list and install the x2goserver_
````sh
# pacman -Sy 
# pacman -S x2goserver
````

After installing the `x2goserver` we need create the data base it uses and 
make sure that it will start when the PC reboots. To make it start when it 
reboots we use the `systemd` feature or Arch Linux. Setting up the db is 
simple a matter of executing `x2godbadmin --createdb` like:

_Create initial database_
````sh
# x2godbadmin --createdb
````

_Setup the startup scripts and start x2go_
````sh
# systemctl enable x2goserver.service
# systemctl start x2goserver.service
# systemctl status x2goserver.service
````



