# Setting Up Kiosk Mode

Configuring the PC as a "kiosk mode" means that we will automatically 
start the PC with the application we want to be running all the time, and
when it crashes for some reason it will automatically restart the application
again.

To configure Kiosk Mode, we need to perform the following steps:

 - Make sure a specific user is automatically logged in when the PC boots
 - Start X-Windows automatically after logging in
 - Start your application and restart it when it crashes

## Auto Login User

Follow the steps below which will login the user on virtual console #1.
We create a directory `/etc/systemd/system/getty@tty1.service.d` and a 
file in that directory which will make sure the user `roxlu` will be 
logged in after booting.

_Auto Login the user roxlu_
````sh
# cd /etc/systemd/system
# mkdir getty@tty1.service.d
# cd getty@tty1.service.d
# emacs -nw autologin.conf
````

We put the following lines into the just created `autologin.conf` file.
Instead of using `roxlu` as username you use the name of the user you
want to login automatically.

_Contents of autologin.conf_
````sh
[Service]
ExecStart=
ExecStart=-/usr/bin/agetty --autologin roxlu --noclear %I 38400 linux
````

## Start X-Windows at boot

For this step you need to make sure that xwindows has been installed and
if you prefer configured a windows manager. See that related articles in 
this guide. We assume you followed this guide and have setup `xmonad` and
already created the `~/.xinitrc` file. If not you'll still be able to execute
the following steps but it might be a bit less clear.

The first thing we need to to is make sure that X-Windows will start
after loging in. This is done by adding one line to your `~/.bash_profile`
script. If you don't have a `./bash_profile` you can copy a default one
from `/etc/skel/.bash_profile`. You have to edit the following files as 
the user that needs to be logged in automatically.

_Open .bash_profile for editing_
````sh
# cd
# emacs -nw .bash_profile
````

_Add the following line to the bottom of .bash_profile_
````sh
[[  -z $DISPLAY && $XDG_VTNR -eq 1 ]]  && exec startx
````

Now that we made sure that X-Windows will start after login, we need to 
make sure that our application will start automatically too. You can 
do this by adding a line to your `.xinitrc` file. Change the path `~/app/my_app`
to the actuall path of your application. 

_Automatically start your application when X-Windows start_
````sh
while true; do
    ~/app/my_app
done
````

When you're following this guide and have setup `xmonad` as your Window
Manager your `.xinitrc` will look look like:

_~/.xinitrc_
````sh 
xsetroot -cursor_name left_ptr
xmobar&
while true; do
    cd ~/app/my_app
    ./swnt
done
exec xmonad
````

## References

 - [Automatic login to virtual console](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Automatic_login_to_virtual_console)
 - [Start X at boot](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Start_X_at_boot)

