# Setting Up The Network

This part of this guide will describe several situations which you might encounter
when setting up the network configurations for you project. They will probably be 
different for each project so I'll try to describe most of common situations.

## Static IP with DHCP

This configuration will make sure that the gateway settings, DNS, etc.. will 
be set using DHCP but the IP will be static. This is often necessary if you 
want to connect with e.g. ssh to the PC.

You'll need to change `/etc/dhcpcd.conf` and set the IP for a specific ethernet
card. First we need to collect some information before we can setup the dhcp 
client. We can use the util `route` for this. 

_Execute the following command: route -n_
````sh
# route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.254   0.0.0.0         UG    202    0        0 enp3s0
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     202    0        0 enp3s0
192.168.1.77    127.0.0.1       255.255.255.255 UGH   202    0        0 lo
````

From this output we can get all the information we need. 

 - routers: Find the line with `0.0.0.0` in the `Destination` column, copy the value from the `Gateway` column
 - subnet: Find the line with `0.0.0.0` in the `Gateway` column, copy the value from `GenMask` column
 - domain_name_service: Use the same value as routers.
 - interface: Find the line with `0.0.0.0` in the `Destination` column, copy the value from Iface.      
 - ip_address: Use ifconfig to get the current IP address, we use: `192.168.1.77`



So from the above we use the following data:
   
 - routers: 192.168.1.254
 - subnet: 255.255.255.0,  which is the same as /24 which we use
 - domain_name_service: 192.168.1.254
 - interface: enp3s0
 - ip_adress: 192.168.1.77

Next we only need to fill in the correct values in `/etc/dhcpcd.conf`.

_Edit the `/etc/dhcpcd.conf` file and hardcode an IP:_
````sh
# cd /etc/
# emacs -nw dhcpcd.conf
````

Add the following config and fill in the correct values we extracted above:

_Set IP address in /etc/dhcpcd.conf_
````sh
interface enp3s0
static ip_address=192.168.1.77/24
static routers=192.168.1.254
static domain_name_servers=192.168.1.254
````


